stm32f3xx I2C, lsm303dlhc sensor and secondary drivers of ninedof (#1754)
tock/tock: doc/syscalls/70006_lsm303dlhc.md

---
driver number: 0x70006
---

# LSM303DLHC

## Overview

Three axis accelerometer, magnetometer and temperature sensor.

[Manual](https://www.st.com/resource/en/datasheet/lsm303dlhc.pdf)

## Command

  * ### Command number: `0`

    **Description**: Returns SUCCESS

    **Argument 1**: unused

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: 0

  * ### Command number: `1`

    **Description**: Verifies whether the hardware sensor is present.

    **Argument 1**: unused

    **Argument 2**: unused

>     **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

Author: If present is async, it writes and reads from the device. The subscribed callback will return whether the device is present or not. The command just issues the writing and the reading. It can only do this if there is no other command in progress, thus the EBUSY.

>     **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

Reviewer: Ahh.. that makes sense -- my concern then I think is if someone is reading this it would be very easy to think that a return of `SUCCESS` means the hardware is present; I gave suggested updated language.

>     **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if presence test has started successfully, `EBUSY` otherwise.
```

>   * ### Command number: `2`

Author: Yes, you have a point, I'll add the separate calls. Usually you want to configure the sensor upfront, but low power makes sense.

>   * ### Command number: `2`

Reviewer: @bradjc I think these changes are still missing?

>   * ### Command number: `2`

Author: I would keep the API like this until we have modify_register API for I2C and update the driver after that.

    **Description**: Set Accelerometer Power Mode.

    **Argument 1**: Accelerometer Data rate defined in manual table 20, page 25

    **Argument 2**: Low power mode (1 on, 0 off) 

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

  * ### Command number: `3`

    **Description**: Set Accelerometer Scale and Resolution.

    **Argument 1**: Accelerometer scale defined in manual table 27, page 27

>     **Argument 2**: High resolution (1 on, 0 off)

Author: This might be useful, adding it.

>     **Argument 2**: High resolution (1 on, 0 off)

Author: I'm not sure how to go about this. To enable low power, this means modifying a register, which implies reading and then writing back to it. Most of the options actually work like this. I am wondering whether to do this for several registers here, or maybe we could add this to the I2C HIL? I am guessing most of the I2C devices will have this pattern, so maybe implementing a functionality similar to the MCU registers might be useful.

Any thoughts here?

>     **Argument 2**: High resolution (1 on, 0 off)

Author: I would keep the API like this until we have modify_register API for I2C and update the driver after that.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

>   * ### Command number: `4`

Author: No, I didn't think of an order, I can change them.

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.
    
  * ### Command number: `5`

    **Description**: Set magnetometer range.

    **Argument 1**: Magnetometer range defined in manual table 75, page 38

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

  * ### Command number: `6`

    **Description**: Reads Acceleration X, Y and Z

    **Argument 1**: unused

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

  * ### Command number: `7`

    **Description**: Reads the temperature

    **Argument 1**: unused

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

  * ### Command number: `8`

    **Description**: Reads Magnetometer X, Y and Z

    **Argument 1**: unused

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: `SUCCESS` if there is no other command in progress, `EBUSY` otherwise.

## Subscribe

All the commands return a callback when done.

  * ### Subscribe number `0`

>     **Description**: Called when commands are done

Reviewer: <img width="528" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/339422/79894655-c71b1380-83d3-11ea-8067-24f67959afda.png">
nit: something is wonky with the whitespace here

Author: I think this is from my editor, is there any guideline for the md?

Author: By driver do you mean the i2c file from each chip? Wouldn't this require a change in all the chips, vs the current solution of implementing it in the virtual_i2c device?

Author: Any feedback here so we can we can merge all the functionalities for the discovery?

---
driver number: 0x70006
---

# LSM303DLHC

## Overview

Three axis accelerometer, magnetometer and temperature sensor.

[Manual](https://www.st.com/resource/en/datasheet/lsm303dlhc.pdf)

## Command

  * ### Command number: `0`

    **Description**: Returns SUCCESS

    **Argument 1**: unused

    **Argument 2**: unused

    **Returns**: 0

  * ### Command number: `1`

>     **Description**: Verifies whether the hardware sensor is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Description**: Performs a test read/write to verify that the hardware sensor is present.
```
